As far as you recall, about how much lead time
warning did a young man get between the time he got
his orders to report and the date he had to go? Okay,
now what happened when we were sophomores, they
came out in the fall, they said if you would join the
AF Armed Forces Reserve, If you were joined that,
you can stay in school until the end of your
semester, end of sophomore year. So we actually
were enrolled in the Army while we were at A&M. We
weren't getting paid, but we were in the Army. With
understanding, we could stay until June, I guess.
So as soon as we were at school, we went straight to
the Army. So that's June of 43. June of 43. I went to
Camp Maxitex. All right. That sophomore year, did
you have a car? Oh, no. And you're still living on a
pretty... Yeah, oh, yeah. You mentioned a while
ago you didn't have any civilian clothes your
freshman year. No, we didn't. I had some, but they
were in Stevensville. But you didn't bring any
with you? No, no. So that even if you had decided you
wanted to slip off and wear some civilian clothes
you didn't have any... That's right. I was happy to
wear that uniform. You didn't have anything that
had to go to the dry cleaners. No. It was all
washable, wasn't it? We had the laundry every
week. And we'd wear our clothes sometimes six
weeks after. It was dirty. Now, you sent them to the
laundry. You didn't do them yourself. They picked
them up. Did you wash your own socks and underwear?
Mm-hmm. Where'd you get a haircut? Over at the core
area right there. You know where the Trigon is? On
the opposite corner, south corner there. Not
south corner, the east corner. There was a little
shopping area right in there. They had a
barbershop, they had a little cafeteria type
thing or drugstore, shoe shine place like that. We
ate there. We got our haircuts there. I didn't go up
North Vegas. And what kind of razor did you guys
use? I've always used straight razor. I never used
straight razor. Okay, I was wondering. I think my
father maybe did, but they must have come out in the
30s because I never shaved with anything with
straight razor. Let's see, was Leupold around
those days? I do not remember because I didn't go to
Northgate. Okay. How often did you go to Bryan?
Never. Never? I never went to Bryan all the time I
was here until after I came back after the war.
Okay, we mentioned... wartime events. We
mentioned Pearl Harbor. What other events do you
remember before you went on active duty that made
an impression? Bataan, Corregidor? Names. We
didn't have the news. We didn't have theaters. We
didn't get the news in those days. You might have
heard it on radio, but I don't recall. It didn't
make an impression. So you don't go out for spring
training then your sophomore year? I went spring
training sophomore year. knowing you're not
going to be here that far. That's correct. And
Norton told us there, and that's one thing I've
always loved him for. He knew we was going.
Everybody knew we was going. He said, I guarantee
you guys, you'll have a scholarship when you come
back. And that cost him his job later. I have heard
that. That got him fired. He couldn't recruit
young guys, so he's going 25, 26. He's been gone
three years, and we couldn't cut it. But he let us
come back and finish our education. Let's see.
What were the most... in those years, what were the
most popular student indulgences? On campus?
Drownouts?
I never saw this, but they used to unload the
trains. They had what they called Fish Day. I think
that's what they called it. And that day the
freshmen could get away with murder. They could do
anything. And sometimes they told me that they'd
go up here and stop the trains and unloaded
whatever they had on them. I didn't see that, but I
didn't get... I don't remember any great... That
was the first one. Oh, the steam tunnels. You know
about steam tunnels. Tell me about steam tunnels.
I never got in one, but I know what they did. Well,
now, nobody admits having been in them. I never
went in them. I wouldn't know one, but they tell
me... Lewis Buck. Let me tell you about Lewis Buck.
What's the last name? Buck. He was a freshman
football player. Big guy, 220, 230. We had a corps
commander, and I do not remember his name, but
Louis Buck beat him up. When he was gone, they beat
the hell out of him. And I don't know if he went
through the steam tunnel or not, but the senior
corps, now the senior corps ran any of those
things. We didn't have commandants and all that
stuff. The seniors ran the college, I guarantee
you. They packed his stuff and put him on the train
and told him never to come back on this campus.
Ever. Well, of course, the war came. He went to war,
and he did come back and got a veterinary degree.
And he's a classmate of mine, class 45. His sister
was on one of the 10 most wanted criminals on the FBI
list. Well, Buck came back. and got his degree, and
then he got into, you know Les Palmer? Sure. He was
Les Palmer's roommate. Oh, okay. We had our 50th
reunion, and we had a meeting over at the motel, and
the president came out and talked, and Buck would
sit back, and he was so rude. He was the rudest
person I ever saw. And then he went on up here to
Franklin and died, but he's the guy that beat up
this poor guy who was, He came here from NTAC, North
Texas.
But I never got in those things. I wasn't going to
get down in that hole. Let's see, were you aware of
any secret fraternities? Yeah, I've heard they
were. I heard there's something called Sons of
Texas or True Texans. There's one called... What
was that other one? They've been here forever. But
you weren't aware of who they were? Not when I was in
school. I never heard of them. No, I just heard of
those after I came back working here. I don't
remember what they are. Let's see. Was there
silver taps in those days? Yes, but I never went. I
went to Silver Taps after I came back here, and I've
only been one time. And let's see, and you didn't go
to Final Review before you went away to the
service? No. Okay. All right, you came back then
when? Came back in January 1946. All right, so the
war was over in August of 45, and you're here in
January. Had the campus changed? Yes, of course. A
lot more people here, more civilians here, more
girls here, wives. So that big growth was already
there in January? Yes, I think so. And the women,
there was lots of women. Of course, they couldn't
go yet. A lot of guys like I was were married and
children on campus. All right. I have assumed that
the typical student then was much more
determined, much more goal-oriented. Much less
playing around then. Oh yeah, definitely. People
are more mature. Not much monkey business. People
wanted to get out. They'd lost three years. So you
lived over, pretty soon you're over in College
View. Yeah. And what did the wives do? Well, I don't
know. But they had their own little group. Some of
them worked. My wife didn't work. She had a little
boy. And what kind of activities were there for the
pre-first graders? There was nothing like that.
There wasn't daycare? They hung around that area
and visited with young friends there at that time.
So we would go to school. Well, I would go to school
at 8 o'clock in the morning. I wouldn't get home
until 8 o'clock at night. Now you're playing, did
you play ball? Yeah, played two more years. And so
you're going through two-a-days. Yeah. And let's
see, is Coach Norton still? Coach Norton's still
here. He went out when I went out, and Harry Stiler
came in. How many of your classmates, how many of
those, in general, how many of those pre-World War
II scholarship recipients came back? Well, I've
thought about that, Haskell. I don't think that
more than 10 of us ever graduated out of that 100 and
something came here. I could be. Well, but not of
that 100. But those that were here in 42. Came back?
Uh-huh. Let me look here a minute. Okay. Came back.
Fulberg did. He didn't. He didn't. That's Bill
Sabian. He didn't. McCann didn't. He didn't.
Henderson didn't. Cure didn't. Montgomery
didn't. Cullen didn't. Zappalack didn't. Leo
did. Jake Webster. Williams. He did. He did. These
were here before. Damon Tassus, Jennings
Anderson, Vernon Valville. I'd say about half of
that bunch. Okay, about half. And I'm assuming
that all of you were better students. Definitely.
Because you were more mature. Your goals were more
clear. You had greater responsibilities. Did the
faculty seem to understand that? I don't know that
I never had any problem with faculty people. They
were always very generous to me. Was the faculty
that you remembered, were many of them still here?
A few. The main guy I can remember is Dan Russell. He
was really a great guy. He helped students. Of
course, a lot of faculty people have been off to
war, too. There wasn't that much difference in our
ages, too much. And let's see, then after the war,
Do you remember any musters or those things? No, I
don't ever think I... We didn't have muster on the
campus. I don't think it started there yet. All
right, when you graduated, where was
commencement held? Dine. Do you remember who the
speaker was? No, I didn't go because I graduated
midterms. And there was no commencement? There
was no commencement. Okay. And you stayed here?
Here. Never left the campus. Okay. So you didn't do
a final review. No, I wasn't in the Corps. Oh. When I
came back after the war, I was enlisted during the
war. Okay, so you dropped. I was a staff sergeant
first class, which is two stripes. And I wanted to
get back in the Corps and get my commission. But I
heard that after I got in college, they said if you
leave here, you won't have an apartment, so I
couldn't go to summer camp. So I said, okay. So I
went ahead and got a commission and had a deal then
for your first three graders, then you could get
commission, which I did. And I got in the guard in
those days. Let's see. Bonfire. Was there a
bonfire held? I don't remember one. I've seen
pictures of it. It was a bunch of little trashy
boxes. You don't even remember where it was? The
first one I remember is over in front of the MSC.
Now, you're not wearing an Aggie ring. Yeah, I am.
Oh, I'm sorry. And why is an Aggie ring important? I
don't know. I think it just binds guys. As you know,
the first place I look, anywhere I go, I look at
their fingers. And I have run across Aggies
everywhere just because of that ring. I think it's
just something with... I came to A&M for a lot of
reasons. One was the boots and one for the ring. I
didn't get the boots because I didn't get the...
See, my class, we never had a corps commander. We
never had a senior yell leader. We never had a class
president. We didn't have any of that because we
were gone when our time came. So we're kind of a
different class than most of them. Class 45. How
many other classes would that be? None, none of
them. Would the class of 44, though? I don't think
so. Class 44, wouldn't some of them, wouldn't a
large number of them have gone? Yeah, I'm sure they
would. But 45, certainly. But we didn't have any of
that. What
makes Aggie Spirit what it is? Well, the best I can
say is
I read the other day, he says, from within, you
can't describe it without you can't understand
it. That's all I mean. Are there any events that
help? Athletic, definitely. Okay, but what else?
Well, if someone participates in civil tax, it
does. If you go to Smuster, it does. Any of the
things, the big things on the campus that do.
Friendship, binding together. It's hard. Now,
like these two kids of hers, And her two sons, I just
feel so much closer to them because they're
Aggies. Aggies can do no wrong. And I know that's
wrong because some of them here I wouldn't have in
my house. But Mr. Penberthy used to say, these old
guys came back here and they liked to talk about how
it was in their day. He says what they meant, they
liked to talk about how they thought it was in their
day. So that's probably what I'm thinking. You
remember the good part. I think these events...
that are comparatively inclusive. Nobody checks
your grade point ratio or anything before you walk
in. I think for some, fish camp helps to start them
along that road now. Even
today, as crowded as it is, I think those
activities are still inclusive. Well, let's see.
I'm just about to finish. What did it mean to you in
terms of your life that you came to Texas A&M? Well,
I don't know. I don't know anything else. This has
been my home for 67 years. I think I was very
fortunate to get to come here. I was very fortunate
I went to war and came back. I was very fortunate
that But all the things that, like my first job
here, all the friends I've made, the places I've
been able to go, my children growing up here,
although none of my children are Aggies. I didn't
go to school with them. But I don't know. It's just I
couldn't think of being from anywhere else.
Again, it's hard for me to describe that. It's
awfully hard. All right, let's make believe
somebody gave you a million-dollar check that you
had to give to A&M. but you can decide what it's
going to go for. What would you have it? It wouldn't
go athletic. What parts of the institution are
dearest to you?
Well, I've thought about it. If I ever won the
lottery, I would give 10%. I don't know if I
wouldn't do it to the church. And I got to thinking,
how am I going to do it to the church? So what do I
think I'd do? I'd give it to somebody in charge and
say, you know more than I do where your needs are.
That's about all I could come up with. Are there
any, if all of the Aggies that you've ever
encountered
were available, which Aggies would you want to
thank most? Darius Moser, Paul Bernard, Ben
McCollum, the man we haven't even talked about.
What did he do? He was a man in Stephenville that was
a banker. He had both legs cut off here. His son was
an Aggie, a veterinarian, and he encouraged me to
come here. And a guy named Harry Breyer, who was
also an Aggie in Stephenville, he encouraged me to
come here. Because I was searching where I wanted
to go to school at that time. I could have gone back
wherever I wanted to at that time. And neither one
of you gave you any financial inducement? No, no,
no.
Is there anybody that you, if they were available,
that you'd want to invite to come over and sit near
you to enjoy a good life? Some Aggie coming? Yeah.
Spike White. He's a best friend of mine. I can tell
in your voice while I go how you... You know Bob? You
know his son? He's a dentist. Oh, yeah. Yeah, he's
our dentist. Okay. Well, see, I raised Bob. You're
talking about this fish camp. Tim Burton is
responsible for that. Mr. Gay, Garden Gay, you
know what that means? Oh, yes. Garden Gay and Spike
White and a guy named Napoleon, a black man who
worked a while, and I took the first fish camp. Up to
Mahea. Mahea. Mahea. We went there for years. I
went straight for 20-some odd years fishing
there. Oh, and not the one at Palestine. No, no, it
was later. Palestine wasn't even there yet. Where
near Mahea? Oh, at Fort, what's that Fort Mahea
following? Oh, oh, oh. Fort Parker. Fort Parker.
We went to Fort Parker. Yes. We had about 25 boys.
Now, when was that? Early 50s. Now, this was a fish
camp. We drove up there in a school bus. How long did
it last? Two or three days? About three days. And
what were the primary emphases? Well, like they do
today, I guess. We took these kids up there. They
got to know one another. We brought corps
commanders in the upper class. We brought faculty
up there. Student leaders up there and talked to
the kids and helped them understand. Get Yale
leaders to come up. They liked to do that. Whose
idea was it? And Gordon Gates. Where did they get
that? I don't know, but it never happened before.
They didn't come? I don't know of any other school.
I don't know about that, but we went up there, and I
remember I went until 1972, I guess. In 1961,
remember Carla? Mm-hmm. Remember Carla? We were
there then, and we had to leave early. We had to rush
home because we were afraid they were going to call
us. Because I've always thought that what fish
camp does is to immerse everybody in maroon when
they get to the campus as freshmen. Gives them lots
of information they need. And again, it's one of
those binding. That's right. Well, you live with
people. It doesn't take three or four days. It's
like, okay, so you came to Stephenville and I came
to Myron as well. So what? Come on, we're in the same
dorm, same... So, last question. What feelings do
you hold in your heart for any of them?
I don't hold the feelings I had for my other
friends. I love A&M, what it does, but there's so
many things I don't like. I don't like
homosexuals. I don't like lesbians. I don't like
people coming in here and desecrating the campus.
I don't like people coming in here that never go to
anything yet. They want to go out and live on the
traditions and the morals of A&M that other people
have done. They go out and say, I'm an Aggie. I think
this very strongly. There's Aggies and there's
students at Texas A&M, and I think there's a hell of
a lot of difference. And I think we're getting more
and more students at Texas A&M to do Aggies. I used
to think only Aggies were poor, but I don't do that
anymore. But we've got a lot of guys here. They're
not Aggies. They're just students passing
through here, and I don't like that. Because the
people they're going out, they're representing
A&M to other people. I said, gosh, that's a great
Aggie. They're not even fair Aggies. And I think
it's getting worse and worse. Like you said, we're
too big. We've lost touch. I don't have the
feeling. I don't know if I'd come to him today.